README.md, before:

# Learning-Rewards

A microservices-based project that implements a catalog system with event processing capabilities. The project consists of two main services:

- **Catalog API**: A GraphQL API service that manages the catalog data
- **Event Processor**: A service that handles event processing and publishes events to Kafka

## Architecture

The project uses a microservices architecture with the following components:

- PostgreSQL databases (one for each service)
- GraphQL API (using gqlgen)
- Event processing service with Kafka integration
- Docker for containerization

### Event Processing Flow

1. Events are received via HTTP POST requests to the Event Processor
2. Events are validated and transformed into a standardized format
3. Events are published to Kafka topics for further processing
4. Other services can consume these events for their specific needs

## Prerequisites

- Go 1.x
- Docker and Docker Compose
- Make

## Getting Started

1. Clone the repository:
```bash
git clone https://github.com/alexandredsa/learning-rewards.git
cd learning-rewards
```

2. Start the services:
```bash
make
```

This will:
- Start the PostgreSQL databases
- Start Kafka and Kafka UI
- Build both services
- Run the Catalog API on port 8080
- Run the Event Processor on port 8081

## Available Commands

- `make` - Build and run both applications
- `make build` - Build both applications
- `make run` - Start databases, Kafka, and run both applications
- `make stop` - Stop both applications, databases, and Kafka
- `make clean` - Clean up build artifacts
- `make help` - Show all available commands
- `make stress-test` – Run Vegeta load test
- `make install-vegeta` – Install Vegeta CLI
- `make clean-stress-test` – Clean stress test results

## Services

### Catalog API
- Runs on port 8080
- GraphQL playground available at http://localhost:8080
- GraphQL endpoint at http://localhost:8080/query
- Uses PostgreSQL database on port 5432

### Event Processor
- Runs on port 8081
- Health check endpoint at http://localhost:8081/health
- Events endpoint at http://localhost:8081/events
- Uses PostgreSQL database on port 5433
- Publishes events to Kafka topic `platform-events`

### Kafka
- Runs in KRaft mode (no ZooKeeper dependency)
- Broker available at:
  - Internal: `kafka:9092` (for container-to-container communication)
  - External: `localhost:29092` (for host machine access)
- Kafka UI available at http://localhost:9094

## Event Format

Events are published to Kafka in the following JSON format:

```json
{
    "id": "uuid",
    "user_id": "string",
    "event_type": "string",
    "course_id": "string",
    "timestamp": "ISO8601 datetime",
    "created_at": "ISO8601 datetime"
}
```

## Development

The project uses environment variables for configuration:

### Event Processor Environment Variables
- `DATABASE_DSN`: Database connection string
- `PORT`: Service port (defaults to 8081)
- `KAFKA_BROKERS`: Comma-separated list of Kafka broker addresses (defaults to "localhost:29092")
- `KAFKA_TOPIC`: Kafka topic name (defaults to "platform-events")
- `DEBUG`: Enable debug logging when set

### Catalog API Environment Variables
- `DATABASE_DSN`: Database connection string
- `PORT`: Service port (defaults to 8080)
- `ENV`: Environment (e.g., dev, prod)

To stop all services:
```bash
make stop
```

To clean up build artifacts:
```bash
make clean
```

## Testing the Event System

You can test the event system by sending a POST request to the Event Processor:

```bash
curl -X POST http://localhost:8081/events \
  -H "Content-Type: application/json" \
  -d '{
    "user_id": "user123",
    "event_type": "course_completed",
    "course_id": "course456",
    "timestamp": "2024-03-20T10:00:00Z"
  }'
```

You can monitor the events in Kafka using the Kafka UI at http://localhost:9094

Commit message:

fix(reward-processor): fix component setup

README.md, after:

# Learning-Rewards

A microservices-based project that implements a catalog system with event processing and reward management capabilities. The project consists of three main services:

- **Catalog API**: A GraphQL API service that manages the catalog data
- **Event Processor**: A service that handles event processing and publishes events to Kafka
- **Reward Processor**: A service that processes events to manage and distribute rewards to users

## Architecture

The project uses a microservices architecture with the following components:

- PostgreSQL databases (one for each service)
- GraphQL API (using gqlgen)
- Event processing service with Kafka integration
- Reward processing service for managing user rewards
- Docker for containerization

### Event Processing Flow

1. Events are received via HTTP POST requests to the Event Processor
2. Events are validated and transformed into a standardized format
3. Events are published to Kafka topics for further processing
4. The Reward Processor consumes these events to manage user rewards
5. Other services can consume these events for their specific needs

## Prerequisites

- Go 1.x
- Docker and Docker Compose
- Make

## Getting Started

1. Clone the repository:
```bash
git clone https://github.com/alexandredsa/learning-rewards.git
cd learning-rewards
```

2. Start the services:
```bash
make
```

This will:
- Start the PostgreSQL databases
- Start Kafka and Kafka UI
- Build both services
- Run the Catalog API on port 8080
- Run the Event Processor on port 8081

## Available Commands

- `make` - Build and run both applications
- `make build` - Build both applications
- `make run` - Start databases, Kafka, and run both applications
- `make stop` - Stop both applications, databases, and Kafka
- `make clean` - Clean up build artifacts
- `make help` - Show all available commands
- `make stress-test` – Run Vegeta load test
- `make install-vegeta` – Install Vegeta CLI
- `make clean-stress-test` – Clean stress test results

## Services

### Catalog API
- Runs on port 8080
- GraphQL playground available at http://localhost:8080
- GraphQL endpoint at http://localhost:8080/query
- Uses PostgreSQL database on port 5432

### Event Processor
- Runs on port 8081
- Health check endpoint at http://localhost:8081/health
- Events endpoint at http://localhost:8081/events
- Uses PostgreSQL database on port 5433
- Publishes events to Kafka topic `learning-events`

### Reward Processor
- Runs on port 8082
- Health check endpoint at http://localhost:8082/health
- Consumes events from Kafka topic `learning-events`
- Uses PostgreSQL database on port 5434
- Processes events to manage and distribute rewards to users

### Kafka
- Runs in KRaft mode (no ZooKeeper dependency)
- Broker available at:
  - Internal: `kafka:9092` (for container-to-container communication)
  - External: `localhost:29092` (for host machine access)
- Kafka UI available at http://localhost:9094

## Event Format

Events are published to Kafka in the following JSON format:

```json
{
    "id": "uuid",
    "user_id": "string",
    "event_type": "string",
    "course_id": "string",
    "timestamp": "ISO8601 datetime",
    "created_at": "ISO8601 datetime"
}
```

## Development

The project uses environment variables for configuration:

### Event Processor Environment Variables
- `DATABASE_DSN`: Database connection string
- `PORT`: Service port (defaults to 8081)
- `KAFKA_BROKERS`: Comma-separated list of Kafka broker addresses (defaults to "localhost:29092")
- `KAFKA_TOPIC`: Kafka topic name (defaults to "learning-events")
- `DEBUG`: Enable debug logging when set

### Catalog API Environment Variables
- `DATABASE_DSN`: Database connection string
- `PORT`: Service port (defaults to 8080)
- `ENV`: Environment (e.g., dev, prod)

### Reward Processor Environment Variables
- `DATABASE_DSN`: Database connection string
- `PORT`: Service port (defaults to 8082)
- `KAFKA_BROKERS`: Comma-separated list of Kafka broker addresses (defaults to "localhost:29092")
- `KAFKA_TOPIC`: Kafka topic name (defaults to "learning-events")
- `DEBUG`: Enable debug logging when set

To stop all services:
```bash
make stop
```

To clean up build artifacts:
```bash
make clean
```

## Testing the Event System

You can test the event system by sending a POST request to the Event Processor:

```bash
curl -X POST http://localhost:8081/events \
  -H "Content-Type: application/json" \
  -d '{
    "user_id": "user123",
    "event_type": "course_completed",
    "course_id": "course456",
    "timestamp": "2024-03-20T10:00:00Z"
  }'
```

You can monitor the events in Kafka using the Kafka UI at http://localhost:9094
